readme.md, before:

# nix-config

## sops guide
- Put the host age key at ```/var/lib/sops-nix/key.txt```
- Put the user age key at ```~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt```

## firefox-config

I use sidebery in my config and am unable to declare it's config fully declaratively. So follow some steps to complete the setup manually:
- Go to ```about:addons``` in firefox url bar, enable all installed extension and themes.
- open sidebery settings, scroll to the bottom (help section),
click on "import addon data",
select "sidebery.json" from the downloaded archive or from [shimmer](https://github.com/nuclearcodecat/shimmer) github repo
keep the toggles at default and click "import".
- Go to ```about:config``` where ```shimmer.disable-collapsing-sidebar``` is set to ```true``` to disable the collapsing sidebar (unfortunately this also requires commenting out some sidebery styles, they are marked in the styles editor inside of sidebery settings). So you have to comment it out manually
- Sometimes the theme is not automatically installed, since it is being installed using policies go to ```about:policies``` to check for any errors.


## servers access 
- ssh: ```<address>:22```
- Syncthing GUI: ```<address>:8384``` (hooman, 12345678)
- Filebrowser: ```<address>:3030``` (admin, admin)
- forgejo: ```<address>:3000```
- torrent: ```<address>:7044```  (hooman, 12345678)
    - Disable CSRF in qbittorent settings to be able to access it over nginx/caddy
- jellyfin: ```<address>:8096```  (hooman, 12345678)
- puffepanel: ```<address>:7566```  (hooman, hooman@example.com, 12345678) (5657 for sftp)
- immich: ```<address>:9833```  (hooman, hooman@example.com, 12345678)


## Start servers(Not all services are enabled all the time):
- Filebrowser: ```sudo systemctl start filebowser```
- Torrent: ```sudo systemctl start qbittorent```
- Jellyfin Media server: ```sudo systemctl start jellyfin```
- Pufferpanel: ```sudo systemctl start pufferpanel```
- Immich: ```sudo systemctl start immich```


## Initial Config
- Enable flakes and nix command using experimental features option
- Use ```nix-shell shell.nix``` to get all required utilities (git, sops etc)
- ```sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake .#nixos```

## Credits
- [Tailscale guide for DNS, Exit Node and Subnet setup](https://youtu.be/vOFI4_qMfd4?si=J1jNnsAmrr4YVuWy)

Commit message:

[SECURITY] Enabled Secure boot, some hyprland config is also commited.
Following the lanzeboote guide secure boot was enabled.

readme.md, after:

# nix-config

## sops guide
- Put the host age key at ```/var/lib/sops-nix/key.txt```
- Put the user age key at ```~/.config/sops/age/keys.txt```

## firefox-config

I use sidebery in my config and am unable to declare it's config fully declaratively. So follow some steps to complete the setup manually:
- Go to ```about:addons``` in firefox url bar, enable all installed extension and themes.
- open sidebery settings, scroll to the bottom (help section),
click on "import addon data",
select "sidebery.json" from the downloaded archive or from [shimmer](https://github.com/nuclearcodecat/shimmer) github repo
keep the toggles at default and click "import".
- Go to ```about:config``` where ```shimmer.disable-collapsing-sidebar``` is set to ```true``` to disable the collapsing sidebar (unfortunately this also requires commenting out some sidebery styles, they are marked in the styles editor inside of sidebery settings). So you have to comment it out manually
- Sometimes the theme is not automatically installed, since it is being installed using policies go to ```about:policies``` to check for any errors.

## Secure Boot
Follow the guide of using Lanzeboote [here](https://github.com/nix-community/lanzaboote/tree/master/docs) for enabling secure boot.


## servers access 
- ssh: ```<address>:22```
- Syncthing GUI: ```<address>:8384``` (hooman, 12345678)
- Filebrowser: ```<address>:3030``` (admin, admin)
- forgejo: ```<address>:3000```
- torrent: ```<address>:7044```  (hooman, 12345678)
    - Disable CSRF in qbittorent settings to be able to access it over nginx/caddy
- jellyfin: ```<address>:8096```  (hooman, 12345678)
- puffepanel: ```<address>:7566```  (hooman, hooman@example.com, 12345678) (5657 for sftp)
- immich: ```<address>:9833```  (hooman, hooman@example.com, 12345678)


## Start servers(Not all services are enabled all the time):
- Filebrowser: ```sudo systemctl start filebowser```
- Torrent: ```sudo systemctl start qbittorent```
- Jellyfin Media server: ```sudo systemctl start jellyfin```
- Pufferpanel: ```sudo systemctl start pufferpanel```
- Immich: ```sudo systemctl start immich```


## Initial Config
- Enable flakes and nix command using experimental features option
- Use ```nix-shell shell.nix``` to get all required utilities (git, sops etc)
- ```sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake .#nixos```

## Credits
- [Tailscale guide for DNS, Exit Node and Subnet setup](https://youtu.be/vOFI4_qMfd4?si=J1jNnsAmrr4YVuWy)
